Laboratory Log
Name: Anirudh Veeraragavan

The first step was to install Ubuntu on a computer in the seasnet laboratory in order to
set up the necessary environment. I had to repeat this process on a different computer
since my original computer was having problems connecting to Ethernet. After installing
Ubuntu, the next step was to check whether I had openssh-server and openssh-client
installed or not. I checked this through the command dpkg --get-selections | grep
openssh, which gave me the output openssh-client install. Since the command did not
output openssh-server install, I had to run the command sudo apt-get install
openssh-server. Afterwards I ran the command dpkg --get-selections | grep opensshagain
and all the output was correct, indicating that the environment was now correctly setup.

Now we can start the process of setting up an account on my team member's computer. For
this lab I was the client and my partner was the server. Thus the first steps were my
partner's responsibility as he had to set up an account for me in the .ssh directory and
give me permission. Afterwards it was my responsibility to proceed, and the first thing
I did was generate my public and private keys using the command ssh-keygen. Then I copied
my public key over to the server, and my user name was new and the server ip address was
10.97.85.53. Thus the command I used was ssh-copy-id -i new@10.97.85.53. Then I used the
command ssh-add to add my private key to the authentication agent, and this finished the
setup.

Everything worked as expected, and the command ssh new@10.97.85.53 allowed me to connect
to the remote server. Furthermore in ~/.ssh/known_hosts there was one entry, which
corresponds to the one server I have authenticated with. 

The final step was to determine whether port forwarding was working. I tested this with
the command ssh -X new@10.97.85.53, and by running commands xterm, gedit, and firefox I
was able to see the windows on my computer. Thus port forwarding was also working as
expected, and thus we had successfully completed the lab.
